Today we're going to dive into why people don't take you seriously. Now, it doesn't matter if it's in your personal life or maybe in your professional life. Say, for example, you have a co-orker or a boss that doesn't seem to take you seriously. And every time you try to bring them an idea or an opinion, it doesn't matter how you do it or how you say it or what you say, it feels like they kind of just give you this patronizing look or they write off your idea without really seeming like they've thought about it. It can be really, really frustrating, but you've come to the right place. And so today I want to share with you some high value things that I have learned on what you can actually do to make people take you more seriously. Hi, if you're new to the channel, my name is Matt. I'm currently working in strategy and ops at Google. And before that, I was a management consultant. And I make these videos because I enjoy it. But without further ado, let's get right into the video. So make sure if you're still here to lock in full screen the video and follow along. So when we think about the question why someone isn't taking us seriously broadly speaking we can bucket the reasons into two main categories. The first is factors that are out of your control and the second is things that are in your control. Now, typically whenever any of us in our personal life or in our professional life interact with someone and we feel like they don't take us seriously, we have this automatic gut reaction to think that the reason they're not taking us seriously is because they simply don't like us as a person. Which brings me to this point. One of the things that is obviously out of our control when it comes to whether or not someone takes us seriously is like it or not, maybe they just don't like you. Maybe with 8 billion people on this earth, maybe there's actually some people that just don't like you personally. And that's not a you problem, that's a them problem. They probably have some kind of personal vendetta against people with your background. Or maybe they just don't like the way that you dressed today. Those are things that we simply can't control. But the reason why I'm bringing them up first is because a lot of times, 90% of the time, we default to this. And in our interaction with someone, they speak to us in a patronizing way or they seem like they don't really care about what we're saying. And then we automatically think, "Oh, I'm screwed. Like, this person, they just don't like me. I might as well give up here and now. I might as well just quit. There's no point in trying, right? The thing is, most of us don't think thoughtfully about it. And most of us forget that there's actually a lot of things that are in our control, things that we should and can be doing, but oftentimes either aren't doing well or aren't doing at all. And these are the things that I want to share with you today. So, let's move over then to this right hand side, things that are actually in your control. And here I'm gonna categorize things into three subbuckets. The first is you don't keep promises. The second is the way that you're actually speaking. You're speaking unconfidently, which we're going to address as well. And the third is that you simply aren't being thoughtful, even if the way that you're speaking is very confident. But let's talk about this first one. You don't keep promises. Now, I know what you're thinking. This is so obvious, right? Of course, I should keep my promises to other people. But I'm not only talking about promises to other people. I'm talking about promises to yourself. Think about the last time that you told yourself or you maybe told a friend, "Oh yeah, this week I'm going to run 10 miles or this week I'm going to go to the gym five times." And then the week rolls around. Maybe you're having a hard time at work. Maybe things are blowing up in your personal life and you don't end up doing the thing that you said you would do and you feel like no one really cares, right? Like you told one friend that's fine and it's fine, right? Like you have a lot going on, you're really busy and so you brush it off and you tell yourself you're going to do it again next week, but then next week rolls around and the same thing happens again. Now, this is very dangerous for multiple reasons. one because personally I think that the most important person to you should be you but also when other people see that you don't keep your own promises to yourself that subconsciously makes them respect you less. Let me explain further. If you see someone and they can't even keep their own promises to themselves, then what are you thinking? You're probably thinking, "Oh my gosh, like they don't even respect themselves. Why should I respect them?" Because again, you fundamentally should be the one person that respects yourself the most, right? And so if you can't even keep the small promises that you make to yourself, then why on earth should other people who aren't you care to give you a similar level of respect? This really manifests in very small ways. Let's say that in a meeting you tell someone, "Oh yeah, I will send you this thing by end of day and then after that meeting you're really busy." And you don't end up finishing it and sending it by end of day and so you send it the day after. Fine, nothing blew up. But that doesn't mean they didn't notice. And so when people notice that over time you slip up a lot or you always promise something and you don't actually deliver on that promise, whether it's a promise to them or even just a promise to yourself, then they're just not going to want to take you that seriously. And so fundamentally, if you understand this, this is a massive unlock. It's not easy to keep the promises to yourself, but if you understand this concept, then you'll actually realize why the little things matter so much and why doing what you say you're going to do is so important. It's not just about, oh, I want to achieve this goal. It's literally about, do I respect myself enough to do the things that I promised? And in turn that subconsciously is going to influence the way that other people perceive me and that influences how they act towards me which will also make me feel more confident. And so understanding that the first thing before we even talk about how you talk to other people or even what you say is the promises and whether you can keep them to yourself is really important because going back to this main question of why people don't take you seriously, it's not just about how you present yourself. It's about the long-term track record of whether or not you're someone who can commit to what you say you'll do. But anyways, let's move to the second bucket now, which is that maybe you're just speaking unconfidently. And so, let's say you're keeping your promises, but when you go into a meeting or when you talk to someone, you're just not really sounding confident. And this is something that fortunately can be fixed. One of the easiest ways to immediately sound more confident in what you're saying is to speak in a downward tone. And so what I mean by this is you need to use downspeak. You need to end your sentences with a downward tone as opposed to an upward tone. So for example, what I just did right there is I spoke with a downward tone instead of a downward tone. And you can see that I sound much more confident when I speak in a downward tone and I end my sentences like this. As opposed to if I go into a meeting and I'm talking to someone and I'm constantly like, "Oh yeah, so we did this and then I wanted to get your thoughts on the presentation and can you please give us your thoughts on this analysis?" No, like you should be saying it as we wanted to get your thoughts on this presentation and we want you to also look at this analysis and give us your thoughts, right? That sounds a lot more direct and prescriptive and it doesn't sound like you're asking them for something even if you actually are. It's about how you sound, not necessarily just the words that you're saying. Secondly is you need to make sure that when you say things, you're thinking and talking in a structured manner. What do I mean by this? Well, think about and this is especially important in a work context. Think about the way that I just opened up this talk. I talked about the main question and then I said that there were two broad buckets and then within each bucket you know first we started here and then we moved over here and then I said there were three subbuckets and then we talked one two and you know we're going to talk about three but notice how structured this presentation is. And I'm not saying that you need to talk to everyone like you're giving a presentation like that's just weird if you're talking to your friends or you're talking to your family like this. But it almost never hurts to speak in a structured manner if you want people to take you seriously. And so situations where you want people to take you seriously are typically when maybe you're pitching something to them or you're pitching an idea or you're trying to educate them about something. In which case, it's almost always better to follow a structured approach. Meaning that you lay out from a top- down perspective. Okay, these are the things that I want to cover with you today. One, two, and three. first let's talk about one and then we'll talk about two and then we'll talk about three. And that's a very easy thing to implement that automatically makes you sound more credible and it's also just easier for them to digest the information. But the third thing you should also really focus on is understanding what you actually want from the audience. So, a CTA, a call to action, refers to the fact that you should always be thinking about how am I going to end what I'm saying? And I need to end it with a call to action. So, let's say I presented this whole talk or let's say I'm in a work situation and I present this whole analysis that I built and then at the end of it suddenly I just stop and I'm like, "Oh yeah, and that's the analysis and I'm just like expecting people to react to it." Now, in most situations, there's nothing wrong with that. But a better way to do it, which would make people take me more seriously, is if after I talk about the presentation, then I explicitly talk about how and so this is the analysis that we've put together. What we want from you is specifically your input on this, this, and this, and whether you think that for next week's VP meeting, we should present it in this manner. So, if you're very prescriptive about what you actually need from someone as opposed to vague, that's almost always going to serve you better. And show them that you've actually put the thought in to think about what you want and you're not just kind of like doing all this work and then dumping it on them and hoping that they're going to give you some good advice, right? And so, remember, always include the call to action at the end of whatever you are explaining. Finally, let's move to this third sub bucket, which is that maybe you are speaking confidently. And maybe you feel like you're doing everything right, but they're still not taking you seriously because you're not being very thoughtful. Maybe you've developed this reputation of being the guy that just always raises his hand in class and blurts out something, but a lot of the times it's low value or it's not really contributing or in general, it's just showing people that you're not really thinking and you're just kind of going for participation points by raising your hand. You're basically just wasting everyone else's time. Same thing applies in a work context. If you always try to chime in, but then your ideas aren't good, then that's actually going to hurt you in the long run because even though you'll be known as someone who has a loud voice or a frequent voice, they're not going to value your opinion as much because you're not known to be very thoughtful. So, it's actually better to speak less if you have more thoughtful things to say when you do speak. And I want you to internalize this concept right here. Okay? The bar of quality. If someone is not taking you seriously because of the quality of your ideas, typically it's because if you imagine you're like a pole valter, the bar here is their standard of quality. So if you are saying things that are below this bar, like in this section right here, then they're not going to take you as seriously. So you only want to share things when it's above this bar. Right now, obviously, you won't really know where someone's bar of quality sits until you've interacted with them for a number of times, but generally there are things that you can do before you have to talk to someone that will increase your chances of actually delivering highquality, thoughtful ideas, such as thinking for a few minutes before you actually go into the meeting. planning out what you want to say, planning out what you want to ask from people, thinking about their POV, right? Don't just think about all the things that you want to ask them. You should also think about, okay, from their perspective and you know, given the context that they have, how are they going to receive my message? And am I delivering the ask in a clear way that is going to enable them to respond to me? These sound very basic, but you would be so surprised how many people just never think about the audience. And then they go into the meeting and they present all this work and they're like, "Oh yeah, I'm so good. I did all this work. I'm presenting it all to you." But then they don't actually get the respect from people that they were looking for because they just blurted out a bunch of words without contextualizing it or thinking about the other person's point of view. And so you need to have kind of a level of empathy and the ability to put yourself in your audience's shoes in order to not just be effective with your delivery, but ultimately for them to take you seriously because they're going to know that, okay, Matt is someone who actually thinks about my POV whenever he brings me a new idea. And so therefore, I should actually think about his ideas and I should really listen to him because he's put a lot of thought into this and he understands what I'm going to be thinking or at least he tries to understand my perspective. Think about that versus if there's someone that you know who every time they come to you, they think they're like the greatest in the world and they never consider what you're actually thinking about. Which person would you take more seriously? Right? The first one. And so taking a step back though, let's recap again what we've talked about today. So broadly speaking, there are things that are out of your control and in your control. And today we talked about the things that you can actually control. Obviously, we'll never be able to 100% guarantee that someone likes us as a person. But again, if they don't like you personally for reasons that are not about how competent you are, then that's not a you problem. That's a them problem. And so don't let that bother you. You should just focus on controlling the things that you can control, such as whether or not you keep your promises to yourself, whether or not you speak confidently, and the level of thoughtfulness that you bring to your conversations. That's all I got for you guys today and I'll see you in the next
