So today I'm going to tell you about something that's taken me probably five plus years to realize about the personal story, the two-minute story, the elevator pitch, whatever you want to call it. Basically, whenever you get asked in an interview, tell me about yourself. This is the question that gets asked 99% of the time. And today I want to share with you a few things that I've picked up about this that I think set the uh average candidate apart from the one that actually gets the offer, especially when you're talking about really really competitive roles um such as investment banking, management consulting or in big tech. And these are learnings that have allowed me to get into multiple companies in these fields. um whether it is Solomon Partners in Investment Banking, um BCG for Management Consulting, or Google, which is where I currently am working. And so without further ado, if you're still with me, make sure you full screen lock in and turn off your notifications. Let's get right into it. The way I want to start this video is I actually want to give you two examples of two candidates with the exact same background. let's say same exact facts about where they're from, where they go to school, what internship experience, club experience they have, what field they're trying to get into. And I'm going to give you the exact same story except in two different ways. And I want you to really listen and see if you can identify which candidate is going to get the offer or at least which candidate is doing a better job of telling their story. Before we get into it, I want to establish the facts that we're going to have. So, let's just assume that this candidate is from Boston originally. They went to Georgetown for their undergrad. They're currently in a consulting club on campus. They interned at a startup last summer. And currently, they are gunning for a management consulting role, ideally at a MBB consulting firm. So, that's Mackenzie Bane or BCG, which are usually the most coveted roles for students. Okay. So, example one, candidate one. Tell me about yourself. Yeah, sure. Absolutely. So, I'm originally from the Boston area and I am currently a sophomore at Georgetown University. I'm majoring in public policy and minoring in computer science. And I'm currently a member of our uh onampus consulting club, the Hilltop Consultants, where I work with a bunch of other consultants on different case projects for small businesses in the Washington DC area. And I've also interned at a startup in the fintech space last summer where I was able to get some exposure to the fintech industry and work with industry leaders on impactful projects. Now that experience has made me realize that I'm really interested in management consulting and so I'm really looking to land a role in the industry and I've also talked to a few people and in my personal life I also enjoy reading, playing sports, watching basketball and cooking. Okay, going to stop there. Now, candidate two, tell me a little bit about yourself. Walk me through your resume. Yeah, sure. Absolutely. So, my name is Matt. I'm originally from the Boston area and I went to Georgetown for my undergrad. I'm majoring in public policy with a minor in computer science. The reason why I chose to study this is growing up my parents worked in the technology sector and I always had kind of this interest in how technology impacts society at large. And so coming to Georgetown I really wanted to put myself in different situations where I could learn a little bit more about tech and business generally. And so I've joined an on-ampus consulting club. I've also interned at a startup in the fintech space most recently. And that experience has been really awesome. And what I enjoyed the most about it was being able to work very closely with the founder of the company on highlevel uh strategic business decisions. So for example, we had to figure out how to develop a competitive response when a competitor had entered the market after us. And so I worked very closely with the CEO that summer to think through okay first of all is it even a threat and then what are our options to address it? and then finally um actually helped with operationalizing the recommendation that we decided on. And so as I think ahead to next summer and how I want to spend my time and what I want to learn, management consulting feels like the logical next step for me. And when I saw that you guys were recruiting on campus, I was just so excited. And uh you know, I've had really great conversations with folks at the firm who have had really great things to say. And so just super excited to be here today and excited to get into it. Awesome. So I'll stop there. So notice how in both stories the general facts were largely the same, right? The candidate was from Boston, went to Georgetown, was studying public policy and computer science, was currently in an on-ampus consulting club, had interned at a fintech startup, and was gunning for MBB consulting. Now, as someone who does a lot of career coaching and talks to probably hundreds of students every year on networking calls, what I can tell you is that this profile of candidate, especially if you're going for a competitive role in consulting, banking, or even tech is extremely common. Now, if you're sitting here and you have a background kind of like this, you're probably thinking to yourself, "Ah, shoot. Like, am I cooked?" And the answer is no, you're not. But what you should really pay attention to is the nuance between the first story, which I would categorize as more of an average level story. nothing terrible about it, but also nothing remarkable with the second story, which I'll go into detail later about what makes it so much better, but broadly speaking, flows much more and doesn't leave too many questions in the interviewer's mind about who you are and where you come from, why you're here today, and where you want to be in the future. And so that leads me to the top three questions that you 100% need to keep in mind because these are the only questions that really matter when you're telling your personal story. The first question is where are you from? The second question is why are you here? And the third question is where do you want to go? Now this sounds very simple in theory, right? Like of course I'm going to answer where am I from and where why am I here and I'm going to talk about where I want to be, right? Like I want to work at their company. But you'd be really surprised. I think a lot of people actually struggle to answer these three questions in their interviewer's mind. And if you'll notice in candidate one, the story was not really a story at all. It was more a listing of the different facts. So they just said like, "Hey, I'm from Boston. Hey, I go to this school. Hey, I'm studying this. I'm also doing this on campus. Oh, yeah, by the way, I'm also interning at the startup or I interned at the startup last summer. And yeah, I want to get into consulting and so that's why I'm here. So, the critical flaw here is that it's failing to connect the dots between each experience. And I'm going to go into depth about how you can actually do that in a bit. It also ends with them talking about their hobbies and interests outside of their professional uh school life, right? They talk about, oh yeah, my hobbies are doing this and that and I I like cooking and and uh sports and basketball, blah blah blah. None of this is bad, but again, it's failing to answer the question at the end of where do you want to go and why are you here, right? You need to end the story with why you are here today. Because the last thing that the interviewer should be thinking in their mind after you've given your two-minute story is, "Oh, awesome. Makes total sense why they're here today. I can tell that they're excited genuinely, and it makes sense for them to join our company." And so let's contrast this with candidate two and what they did better. Well, number one is they actually told a story. And so a story is literally just when you connect multiple facts and events that happened at different points in time when you connect them together in a cohesive and logical way that actually makes sense, right? And when you logically weave each experience together, what's going to happen is that the restatement of facts turns into a believable sequence of events. And I emphasize the word believable here because a lot of students will try to tell a story, but they'll make up certain details or they'll make up experiences or they'll they'll tweak experiences in a way that they think their interviewer wants to hear. The problem is that nine times out of 10, the person who's on the other side of the table, they know way more than you do about that job because they're literally working it. And so it's very very easy for them to sniff out any kind of BS that you're trying to put out there. Any kind of faking around that you're doing is probably going to be detected unless you're just a very very good liar. And I also don't advocate for lying in interviews either because even if you say do get the job, then you're going to actually have to perform on the job. And so if you're not actually qualified, you're actually shooting yourself in the foot by lying about your experiences. So how do you make it believable? Well, step one, you weave each story together. And you include what I call transition phrases. Things like, "Oh, yeah, and so I had a really great experience here this summer, but as I thought about next summer, what I reflected on was, okay, I really enjoyed this thing, and so I wanted to do more of that in my next experience, and that's why I'm looking for this." Or, you know, one of my favorite experiences about this internship was being able to work with a lot of different companies across a bunch of different industries. And so that's something that I'm actively looking for in my next role. And so if you include these transitionary phrases or sentences in between each experience rather than just saying, "Oh yeah, and so I did this internship and I did this and I learned that and now I want to do this and I've realized that I want to do that." It's going to be a lot more believable. But it's not just about that, right? A critical component to logically weaving disparate experiences together in a story is demonstrating that you have a sufficient level of reflectiveness. So you need to reflect on your experiences and you need to show them that you didn't just do the internship and then forget about it. You need to show them that you did the internship and then you reflected on that experience. you thought about what you actually liked or didn't like and then you used that information to inform the trajectory that you want to move in next because if you don't demonstrate that level of reflection then it's not going to be believable about why you want to suddenly make the the move over and you're going to end up defaulting to what I call blanket reasons to go into these prestigious high-paying jobs which are things like money like the pay the prestige or the impact. Right now, the first two, money and prestige, most people don't say that in an interview and it's kind of taboo. But the third one, impact, which is like, oh, I want to work with really big companies or I want to work with really big clients and I want to have a a big impact on them, which is super vague, by the way. The problem with that is anyone can use that reason and it's kind of low effort and demonstrates that you're not really unique. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're probably thinking, "Then how the heck do I make my reasons unique?" And I'm not saying you have to come up with some crazy reason that nobody else has ever thought of. No, the way that you make it unique is again, you tie your individual set of experiences together in a logical way so that it only makes sense that you want to go to their company or go to work in their industry because very few people are going to have the exact same set of experiences. And so that's actually your edge to be able to tie your disperate set of experiences and unique set of experiences together. But this brings me to the third point which is you need to demonstrate effort. And so in that story, the second story, I talked about how oh yeah, like I'm really excited about consulting and have heard really great things about your firm through conversations with current employees. So, what that is doing is one, it's showing that I actually took the time to network with people at the company, which already puts me above like 50% of people because more than half of them probably didn't even network before they got the interview. And two, it's going to make me more credible again because I've actually done the research and I've actually talked to someone who works there, right? I'm not just like making up stuff about their industry or their company that I think is true. I'm actually showing that I went out of my way and I talked to someone who works in the industry. Now, other ways that you can demonstrate effort is you can also just do a lot of in-depth research. So, if there is information out there online, you honestly should be already looking up every possible bit of information if you're interviewing at a company. But if you're not, you should make sure to do in-depth research so that if called upon, you can talk about a specific example of something, maybe a program that the company runs that you're really interested in. For example, at McKenzie, they have this program that I think it's called like the LEAP program, and it's a way for McKenzie consultants to get exposure to startups. So, that's a specific example that if someone asked you, hey, why are you interested in working at McKenzie? You could bring it up as, hey, you know, one of the reasons why I'm interested in working at McKenzie is also, I've heard from my conversations with current consultants, you guys have this thing called the LEAP program. It's a great way for consultants to get exposure to the entrepreneurship and startup ecosystem. And that is something that's really exciting to me. So, the specifics are really, really important, but you're only going to get those specifics if you take the effort to talk to people and do your research. The last thing that the second candidate did better than the first one was instead of talking about their hobbies and their personal life at the end, they ended on a high note by tying it again to the present, why you're here today, and then reiterating their excitement. So, if you remember, I basically said something along the lines of, "Oh, yeah." And so, like, when I saw that you guys were coming to campus for on campus recruiting, I was super excited because I've heard really great things through my conversations with current consultants. And so, ready to get going and just excited to speak with you today, right? And so, what you're doing right there is one, you're tying it to the present. So, you're saying, "Oh yeah, like I saw you guys were coming to campus, so I applied. I was super excited." and you're reiterating your excitement. So, you're literally ending on a high note. You're saying, "I'm like so excited. I'm revved up and I'm just ready to go. Let's get into it." Right? You'd be surprised how few people actually express legitimate excitement in interviews because half the time people are just so nervous that they can't even act like they're excited because they're just so nervous and they're thinking about like all these hypothetical scenarios where things could go wrong and they're super nervous and maybe they didn't sleep well the night before because they were cramming. And so if you can literally just demonstrate a little bit of excitement at the end, genuine excitement of like, "Yeah, I'm excited to get into this today." You're already going to be starting off on such a good foot with your interviewer because they're going to feel that excitement and they're going to be like, "Wow, okay. Yeah, this guy's got a great attitude. Let's get into it." Okay? And so if you do all of these things that I've explained to you today and you don't just list out the facts of your story and you actually weave each experience together into a logical and cohesive narrative that answers the three core questions of where are you from, why are you here, and where do you want to go? And then you tie in all of these elements, right? and end on a high note by reiterating your excitement and enthusiasm for this interview, then you are going to be ahead of 99% of people who interview for these highly highly competitive roles. Even if there's someone there who has the same background or a very similar background as you, your story is just going to be so much more compelling because of the way that you tell it. But anyways, that's all I got for you guys today. Hope you found it helpful.
